---
title: '31. Rotation To A General Practice Training Program'
eba: 'Doctors in Training 2022-2026'
topics: ['hours', 'rosters', 'employment', 'consultation']
---

# 31. Rotation To A General Practice Training Program



**31.1** The Program Teaching Practice must provide in writing the terms and conditions of Rotation one month prior to the Doctor commencing the term. Such terms and conditions must include details of:

**(a)** rostered hours of work;

**(b)** educational activities provided;

**(c)** paid release time for training program educational activities; and

**(d)** the name of the Doctor in the Practice who will be the designated supervisor. A supervisor must be available for consultation during all periods of duty.

**31.2** The Program Teaching Practice will provide the Parent Hospital with details of any leave taken (including personal/carer’s leave and annual leave) during the general practice rotation.

**31.3** A maximum of one week's annual leave may be taken in any 13 week Program Teaching Practice rotation. The Program Teaching Practice must pay this annual leave entitlement either to the Doctor, if leave is taken, or to the Parent Hospital for subsequent payment to the Doctor when leave is taken.

**31.4** The individual Program Teaching Practice must pay the respective Doctor for time worked in the period of employment with the Program Teaching Practice.

**31.5** The individual Program Teaching Practice shall be responsible for:

**(a)** payment of personal/carer’s leave (to the extent of any credit advised by the Parent Hospital) taken whilst the Doctor is in a period of employment with the Program Teaching Practice; and

**(b)** pro-rata annual leave payment to the Doctor, either paid for leave taken or pay an equivalent amount to the Parent Hospital;

**(c)** workers compensation for the Doctor during the period of the employment with the Program Teaching Practice.

**31.6** A Doctor rotated to a Program Teaching Practice situated more than 50 kilometres from the Parent Hospital must be provided with accommodation, including married accommodation if requested, during the period of Rotation free of charge. Married accommodation shall mean married quarters for married Doctors or Doctors in a domestic relationship accompanied by their family.

**31.7** A Doctor rotated to a Program Teaching Practice situated more than 50 kilometres from their Parent Hospital shall be entitled to the Travelling Allowance set out in [clause 55](/ebas/doctors-in-training/allowances/55-travelling-allowance-use-of-private-vehicle) (Travelling Allowance – Use of Private Vehicle) for travel between the Parent Hospital and the Program Teaching Practice:

**(a)** at the commencement and termination of Rotation; and

**(b)** once every four weeks of the 13 week Rotation; and

**(c)** for all work-related travel required by the practice.

**31.8** Payment must only be made pursuant to subclause 31.7 if travel is undertaken by the Doctor.

**31.9** For the purpose of this clause 31, the Parent Hospital will be the Hospital from which the Doctor is rotated (refer [clause 3](/ebas/doctors-in-training/preliminary/3-definitions) definitions). In the event that a Doctor commences the first ever term in Victoria on Rotation the Parent Hospital shall be that Hospital to which the Doctor was appointed.

**31.10** The Parent Hospital must ensure continuity of employment conditions are met by maintaining such records as are required under this Agreement.

**31.11** The Parent Hospital must ensure (subject to the appointment being filled) that Rotations to Program Teaching Practices occur and must not cancel Rotations, or recall Doctors during Rotation to meet its own service needs, without the agreement of the Program Teaching Practice.

**31.12** Out of Hours Work

**(a)** The Program Teaching Practice must pay the Doctor for work undertaken in the Program Teaching Practice out of hours or after the completion of 38 hours at the rate of:

**(i)** 40% of all fees generated by the Doctor; or

**(ii)** the applicable entitlement afforded to the Doctor in accordance with the Medical Practitioners Award 2010,

whichever is the greater.

**(b)** Out of hours pursuant to subclause 31.12(a) above shall mean outside the hours of

**8.00** a.m. to 6.00 p.m. Monday to Friday and 8.00 a.m. to 12.00 noon Saturday.

**(c)** The application of this subclause 31.12 shall exclude the Doctor from any entitlement to the On-call ([clause 38](/ebas/doctors-in-training/hours-of-work/38-on-call)) or Recall ([clause 39](/ebas/doctors-in-training/hours-of-work/39-recall-return-to-workplace)) provisions of this Agreement.

Plain language terms: GP rotation, GP training.


